---
page_title: "skytap_vm Resource - terraform-provider-skytap"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a Skytap Virtual Machine (VM) resource.
---

# skytap_vm (Resource)

Provides a Skytap Virtual Machine (VM) resource. The environment VM resource represents an image of a single virtual machine.

~> **NOTE:**
* VMs do not exist outside of environments or templates.
* An environment or template can have multiple VMs.
* Each VM is a unique resource. Therefore, a VM in a template will have a different ID than a VM in an environment created from that template.
* The VM will be run immediately after creation.

## Example Usage

```hcl
# Create a new vm
resource "skytap_vm" "vm" {
  template_id = 1473407
  vm_id = 37865463
  environment_id = skytap_environment.environment.id
  name = "my vm"
  cpus = 2
  ram = 4096

  os_disk_size = 40000

  disk  {
    name = "my disk"
    size = 4096
  }

  disk  {
      name = "my other disk"
      size = 4096
  }

  network_interface  {
     interface_type = "vmxnet3"
     network_id = skytap_network.network.id
     ip = "172.128.0.1"
     hostname = "myhost"

    published_service {
      name = "ssh"
      internal_port = 22
    }
  }
}

# Will work after VM resource is created
output "ssh_ip" {
  value = skytap_vm.vm.service_ips.ssh
}
output "ssh_port" {
  value = skytap_vm.vm.service_ports.ssh
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **environment_id** (String) ID of the environment you want to add the VM to
- **template_id** (String) ID of the template you want to create the VM from
- **vm_id** (String) ID of the VM within the template that you want to create the VM from

### Optional

- **cpus** (Number) Number of CPUs allocated to this virtual machine
- **disk** (Block Set) Set of virtual disks within the VM (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--disk))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **label** (Block Set) Set of labels for the instance (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--label))
- **name** (String) User-defined name of the VM
- **network_interface** (Block Set) Set of virtualized network interface cards (also known as a network adapters) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network_interface))
- **os_disk_size** (Number) The size of the OS disk. The disk size is in MiB; it will be converted to GiB in the Skytap UI. The maximum disk size is 2,096,128 MiB (1.999 TiB)
- **ram** (Number) Amount of RAM allocated to the VM
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- **user_data** (String) VM user data, available from the metadata server and the Skytap API

### Read-Only

- **max_cpus** (Number) Maximum settable CPUs for the VM
- **max_ram** (Number) Maximum amount of RAM that can be allocated to the VM
- **service_ips** (Map of String) Map of external IP addresses. The key is the name of a published service - as defined in the `published_service` block
- **service_ports** (Map of Number) Map of external IP addresses. The key is the name of a published service - as defined in the `published_service` block

<a id="nestedblock--disk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `disk`

Required:

- **name** (String) A unique name for the disk
- **size** (Number) The size of the disk specified in MiB. The minimum disk size is 2048 MiB; the maximum is 2,096,128 MiB (1.999 TiB)

Read-Only:

- **controller** (String) The disk controller
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **lun** (String) The logical unit number (LUN) of the disk
- **type** (String) The type of disk


<a id="nestedblock--label"></a>
### Nested Schema for `label`

Required:

- **category** (String) Label category that provides contextual meaning
- **value** (String) Label value used for reporting

Read-Only:

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.


<a id="nestedblock--network_interface"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network_interface`

Required:

- **hostname** (String) Hostname of the VM
- **interface_type** (String) Type of network that this network adapter is attached to
- **ip** (String) The IP address (for example, 10.1.0.37). Skytap will not assign the same IP address to multiple interfaces on the same network
- **network_id** (String) ID of the network that this network adapter is attached to

Optional:

- **published_service** (Block Set) A binding of a port on a network interface to an IP and port that is routable and accessible from the public Internet. This mechanism is used to selectively expose ports on the guest to the public Internet (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network_interface--published_service))

Read-Only:

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--network_interface--published_service"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network_interface.published_service`

Required:

- **internal_port** (Number) The port that is exposed on the interface
- **name** (String) A unique name for the published service

Read-Only:

- **external_ip** (String) The published service's external IP
- **external_port** (Number) The published service's external port
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.



<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **create** (String)
- **delete** (String)
- **update** (String)
